PGB-1: Introduction to sequencing
hi I'm Fabien from wi nois makers and 
 today we'll have a look at basic 
 sequencing on the 
 pgb1 press the track button to enter 
 track mode and then button one to select 
 the kick 
 track next press the R button to enter 
 pattern edit mode now you can place the 
 kick notes on the 16st step pattern 
 press play to start the 
 sequencer to select another instrument 
 hold the track button and press the 
 corresponding number for instance here 
 button two for the 
 snare now you can ENT the steps for the 
 snare now repeat this procedure to 
 switch to the high hat track and enter 
 the 
 pattern press the R button to exit edit 
 mode Let's Play to stop the 
 sequencer now we will look at another 
 way to edit step and basic step 
 configuration press the step button to 
 enter step 
 mode hold the step button and press 
 button one to select the first 
 step in the step settings navigate to 
 the left to reach the step condition and 
 use the up button to set the condition 
 to always now go to the right to the 
 velocity setting and use the down button 
 to lower the value to copy and paste 
 this step hold the copy fix button at 
 the top right and then press the step 
 button to select step copy mode next 
 press the step that you want to copy and 
 finally the steps where you want to 
 [Music] 
 paste back in track mode we will now 
 program the base on track four by 
 default on the pgb1 the steps for the 
 Basse track will always play the root 
 note of the core 
 [Music] 
 progression enter edit mode again and 
 play place a few steps press play and 
 you will hear the bass follow the C 
 [Music] 
 progression now for the lead 
 [Music] 
 track steps will play an ARP Jor over 
 the chord 
 progression so just enter a few steps to 
 start a 
 [Music] 
 [Applause] 
 Melody to add more variation in control 
 to the pattern we will use a different 
 step condition in Step setting go back 
 to the left to the condition page and 
 press up to select field mode 
 and then copy the step to the remaining 
 empty steps of the 
 pattern press play to start the 
 pattern now hold the copy FX button and 
 press button one to enable field mode 
 all the steps are now playing the app 
 P to complete the track use the same 
 procedure as before 
 to add chords on step one and 
 [Music] 
 nine and then why not a clap simple 
 [Music] 
 going back to step settings use one of 
 the random step conditions for step 15 
 this is a simple way to make a pattern 
 more interesting very 
 [Music] 
 [Applause] 
 quickly and then that's it for basic 
 sequencing on the pgb1 see you next time

PGB-1: track settings 

hi I'm Fabien from wi nois makers and today we will have a look at track settings on the pgb1 track settings is where you will find most of the sound design and mixing controls as well as track specific features like the arpegiator in this video we will have a look at the base track but all tracks follow the same structure as you can see on the screen we are in track settings and there are several Pages available the selected page is marked by a bigger Dot the first page for the Bas trck is the syn engine there are dozen engines available on this [Music] prototype we select the source swarm [Music] engine if we press the right button we go to the next setting which is on the second page this page contains four parameter for the syn engine [Music] [Music] now to the third page we have four parameters for the LFO rate amplitude shape and Target if we select P1 as the LFO Target we can hear the automatic variation of the first synth engine parameter which is dtune here we can increase or lower the speed of the LFO now we will put the LFO on the highpass filter by selecting P2 in the LFO Target setting [Music] the LFO shape setting is a little bit special first there are several shapes for the modulation of the LFO and there are two additional settings indicated by the small S and L letters l means Loop when activated the LFO will continuously run in a loop [Music] s means synchronize when activated the LFO resets every time a note is [Music] played if we enable synchronization and disable looping the LFO will just run once per not played effectively turning it into an [Music] envelope now going to page four we have the track [Music] volume page five is Stereo [Music] Penning page six is for Global mixing effects there are five options available here first you can choose to not run any [Music] effect then you have another Drive which is too low at the moment so let's turn it up a little bit [Music] then we have [Music] Reverb filter and a Beat [Music] Crusher next page is the Octave of sets which means we can shift the entire Track by one or several octaves here since this is a base track the default is to go down by two [Music] octaves next we have Shuffle or swing for the track which will change the timing of even steps let me show you in a little example for [Music] [Music] next we have the arpegiator mode let's switch to the lead track to hear the different options [Music] [Applause] [Music] then we have the arpegiator note settings at this time only the chord notes are available and finally track mode from which we can turn the track into an external medd controller and that's it for track settings on the pgb1 see you next time

PGB-1 Firmware Update Procedure

So hello uh this is Fabien from Wee Noise Makers. Today we're going to have a look at a firmware update for the PGB1 the firmware update procedure. Um if you haven't seen it already we have a blog post uh talking about this release. In particular, we want to draw your attention to uh a little issue that we have with the bootloader uh which is not um a big issue per se because uh uh if you follow the instruction correctly and uh basically if the update is not interrupted uh everything will be fine and if there is an issue uh you can still recover you um um just just send us a support request and we'll help you recover the device. Uh but just to make sure uh what's important is that the update is not interrupted. So um first uh use a good quality USB cable for the update. Uh make sure that your computer is not going to restart. So uh make sure there's no uh update going on. If you're on a laptop, make sure you have enough battery or maybe plug it uh to the power supply to make sure everything will be okay. Um but other than that, uh everything should be fine. Uh and so let's uh let's start with the procedure. So first we're going to turn on the device uh and have a look and see what what is the current version that we have. So I'm going to press menu. I'm going to press right until I reach the uh sorry the system info menu. Press A to enter. And so here we see that we have version 1.0.1 uh and on the on the website. So uh be sure to check uh from time to time what versions available. You can also um join the discord server. Uh we will announce u any updates over there. Uh but right now we have version 1.1.0 available which means that we uh we can uh update. Okay. So I'm going to go press B to uh go back and press left once to go over the update mode. Press A to enter. And then I have to confirm because uh this is going to turn off the device and reboot in uh in update mode. Uh your project file will be saved and um and the device will will restart. So I'm going to go right and press A. Uh we are not now in uh update mode. Uh and so um two things are going to happen. First you see on the on the LEDs there's the the two letters U and P to uh show that the device is indeed in update mode. And if you look at your computer there's a new uh USB drive that's um visible over here which is called uh RPI-RP 2. Uh, and that's that's the that's the kind of a fake uh USB drive that's simulated by the PGB1 where you can drop your uh firmware. Um, before we do the update, something I want to mention as well, uh, the update will not erase or modify your user data. So if you have projects uh samples uh on the device, they will still be there and still be available and and doesn't change uh anything. All right. So to do the update, we go to the computer. Uh as you can see here, I already have the latest firmware uh uh downloaded here. So it's it's going to be an UF2 file. All right. And the naming should be something like Win noise maker PGB1 firmware the version. So here we have 1.1.0. Uh it's a release version and we have the date uh of the build. All right. So to do the update uh it's extremely simple. I just have to drag and drop this file in the USB drive- RP2. And then that's it. I'm just going to wait. So we wait until the PGB run resets. Uh that's very important. Again, we don't want to interrupt the process. So just wait. Maybe it's going to take more time that than than in my case here in the video. Uh but what's important is to not interrupt and just wait for the PGB1 to uh restart. Okay. Now we can go back to the menu and have a look at the version. And now we see that we have version 1.1.0. Uh and so the update was uh successful. And uh and that's it for uh this quick video on the update procedure for the PGB1. Um if you're watching this just after the 1.1.0 release, uh I will also publish a video showing the various uh changes and the new features on the on this on this update. All right, thank you for watching. See you soon. Bye.

PGB-1 firmware update 1.1.0

Hi, I'm Fabien from Wee Noise Makers and 
 today I want to show you uh some of the 
 little improvements and features of the 
 um 1.1.0 
 firmware release of the PGB1 which is 
 the first uh firmware update since the 
 release um of our Pocket Groove Box. Um, 
 and I also want to cover some of the 
 features that are maybe a little little 
 bit more advanced or some tips and 
 tricks um that are not um very well 
 documented uh right now. Uh, okay. So, 
 we start with the audio inputs um 
 uh so there are three uh audio inputs on 
 the device uh which we can control from 
 uh a little menu. So we we press menu, 
 we go right to the inputs and uh here we 
 so we have the first page of settings. 
 Uh so first we can turn on or off each 
 of the three different inputs. So we 
 have the stereo lining which is this 
 connector over here uh next to the 
 headphone speaker. We have an internal 
 microphone which is just here and we can 
 have a um headset microphone but I don't 
 have a headset right now so it's not 
 going to do anything. And last, we can 
 control the volume, the volume or the 
 gain uh for uh all three inputs 
 combined. So, um if you want to use the 
 the internal microphone, you you might 
 want to raise the volume here. Uh 
 usually for line input, you want to keep 
 it as low as possible and increase the 
 volume on the device that you are um 
 using um because you're going to get 
 more headroom, less noise uh this way. 
 So for this demo here, I'm going to 
 bring in um a pocket operator. 
 All right. So the line input is on. I 
 have the volume set to a low value. And 
 I going to play the pocket operator 
 which is just connected through a stereo 
 mini jack. 
 Um so yeah, you can see we can hear the 
 pocket operator through the PGB1. And if 
 we go to the next page of settings, uh 
 it's going to be about um um effects on 
 the uh uh audio inputs. So right now 
 it's bypassed, so we don't have any 
 effects. We have the um overdrive, 
 the beat crusher, 
 and the reverb, 
 which is pretty nice. 
 Let's switch to our next topic which is 
 uh sample recording. Um so to record a 
 new sample uh there's a bit of a 
 shortcut. You press uh the copy effects 
 button, you hold it and then you press 
 edit and you're going to enter uh sample 
 mode. So here you can either create a 
 new sample or edit an existing sample. 
 uh in which case you are going to um 
 change the start point, end point and 
 the name of the sample. So it's not very 
 interesting for this demo. So let's 
 let's make a new sample. So I press A. 
 Then I can select which one of the 
 inputs I want to use. Uh so it's one of 
 the three. Uh we're going to use light 
 line in here. We're going to record the 
 pocket operator. Uh and with up and down 
 I can control the volume or the gain. 
 All right. Uh if I press A again, it's 
 going to start recording. We have a two 
 seconds uh rolling buffer. Uh so once we 
 uh record more than two second, it's 
 going to erase the old stuff with the 
 new one coming in. So now I can press a 
 button on the pocket operator. And I 
 have my sample here. I can see that it's 
 not very loud. I can probably raise the 
 gain a little bit. So I can press B to 
 go back. 
 can still increase a little bit. 
 Okay, 
 once I'm happy, I press A again to stop 
 the recording. And now with the left and 
 right button, I can move the start 
 point. With the up and down, I can move 
 the end point. 
 Uh you can also see as well we have 
 different lights on the keyboard here. 
 It's because I can preview my sample 
 pressing those keys 
 at different pitches. 
 If I press one, I can go down one 
 octave, 
 which can be useful to um set the start 
 point more precisely. 
 [Music] 
 If I press four, I go back to the 
 central octave. If I press eight, I can 
 go higher. 
 Okay, so sample is pretty good now. But 
 uh I'm going to go back and uh actually 
 I got two sample in one. Um this is for 
 a little trick I want to show you later 
 on. So let's go back and I'm going to 
 record um 
 um sorry 
 let me Okay, let me try again. 
 Okay. So now we have 
 we have two sounds. 
 Okay. 
 Um so let's press A to continue. We can 
 set a name for the sample. I'm a bit 
 lazy. Press A to to select the sample 
 location. So let's put it here. Press A 
 again. We have to confirm. Press uh 
 right to select. Yes. Press A to 
 confirm. It's going to take a couple of 
 seconds to save the sample. And that's 
 it. Uh, we know we can go to one of the 
 sample tracks. We go up and we see our 
 sample 
 over here. 
 All right. So, that's basically how to 
 create a new sample on the PGB1. 
 Okay. So, that's how you um create a new 
 sample on PGB1. Um, now I'm going to 
 show you how to uh use uh um as much as 
 possible the the two sampler tracks. So 
 we have the seven and the eight that are 
 sample track. People are asking um if we 
 can have more sample track. It's not 
 really possible 
 um because of the hardware limitations 
 of the device. But um there are some 
 tips and tricks that uh really can uh 
 can greatly improve what you can do with 
 the with the sample track. So let's uh 
 let's have a look. First I'm going to 
 create a new project. 
 All right. And so I'm going to select 
 the first maybe raise the volume a 
 little bit. The first sample track. Um 
 and so right now we have the cowbell 
 selected. So that's what's going to play 
 by default. If I press edit, put in a 
 pattern, it's just going to play the 
 cobbell. All right. 
 But if I go to the step mode, 
 select step one, and I go right, I can 
 go to the parameter locks. Um, and so 
 for the sample track, one of the 
 parameter is actually which sample we 
 want to play. And so maybe what I can do 
 is uh I think there's a kick somewhere. 
 Let's put a kick here. 
 All right. Now I go to the third one. 
 I'm going to enable it and I'm going to 
 take 
 um 
 say a high hat 
 and the fifth one. 
 You see where I'm going here? 
 Uh some some snare. 
 Okay. Now I going to copy the steps. 
 Copy this one. Put it here. Copy this 
 one. Put it here and here. Copy the 
 snare. 
 here. 
 And so 
 this is just to show you that actually 
 even though 
 we just have two sample tracks, you can 
 actually play different samples on each 
 uh individual step. And so if you 
 combine this with the two um sample 
 tracks, uh you can actually do a lot uh 
 with just the with just the samples. 
 Let's clear. Make a new project. And I'm 
 going to show you another trick 
 with the sample we recorded before. So 
 I'm going to select it. 
 So if you remember in this sample, we 
 have actually two sounds. And just 
 actually click on this one was maybe too 
 loud. Um anyway, uh we're going to use 
 the same trick more or less. We're going 
 to um set a different. So, we're going 
 to put two steps. Set a different 
 starting point. So, this one is going to 
 start um 
 at the very beginning. We're going to 
 put a very short release. 
 So, we just hear the first sound. The 
 next one, we put a short release as 
 well, but we change the starting point. 
 So, we start 
 at the beginning of the at the second. 
 And so this way again I can copy 
 with just one sample slot. We actually 
 have two samples um which is one way to 
 uh better optimize and use more memory 
 um in the device. So um there you go 
 little trick for for you. 
 Okay. So now let's look at some other 
 improvements that we have in this in 
 this release. um I think one of them. So 
 let's go to the track. Uh let's load um 
 a demo track, a demo project. So this 
 one for instance. 
 Okay. So when you are editing um track 
 settings, uh one way to change the value 
 is the up and down arrow here. So I can 
 increase the drive for the kick. But 
 there's also the touch strip. And so the 
 touch strip is much more uh usable now. 
 with uh with this release. Um so it's 
 smoother and and and more uh more 
 precise as well. Um and one little trick 
 I want to show you. So I'm going to solo 
 the kick. If you press and hold the copy 
 uh FX button, you have access to one 
 parameter that you can change live um 
 whenever uh you know whatever you select 
 in the track settings. So I can I can 
 select the sample track. If I can press 
 FX here, you see the lead and the 
 parameter is tuned. But I can go 
 to the kick track and I can select 
 uh drive. And so right now I can just 
 change the drive with the touch. 
 It's a quick way to have one parameter 
 that you want maybe to change live uh 
 during your during your performance. 
 Okay. Another um quick tip I want to 
 share is the chord progression um kind 
 of indicator. Um so when there's a pro 
 chord progression going on, you see 
 these little dots and the and the little 
 up arrow here on the screen. This is 
 showing where where you are in the chord 
 progression. Um so if I hit play, 
 see the third chord, fourth chord. Let 
 me turn down the volume a little bit. 
 Uh and this is useful to time your 
 change of of uh pattern and and song 
 parts. 
 So here 
 um let me select so this one for 
 instance 
 I can see so the second chord third 
 chord and then it's the the first one is 
 coming so I can change to the next part 
 before we go back to the first chord. So 
 that's that's a little trick. And right 
 now we also have this uh display in the 
 FX/Copy menu. So I can time my retrigs 
 and release just in time. Okay. So next 
 on the topic of chord progressions, um 
 some people ask how to how to set up a 
 chord progression. So um let's let's 
 start a new project. 
 All right. And let's put just a just a 
 bass pattern 
 just so we have something going on. So 
 the chord progression uh it's happening 
 in song mode. So we press song. Um maybe 
 we have the first song part. 
 Um so which cord progression is going to 
 play is this is is is uh set here. You 
 see chords and number 13. So to change 
 that I press B to go down. 
 then right and then with up and down I 
 can select between 13 14 15 and 16 and 
 this corresponds to the four buttons 
 over here. These are the C progression 
 buttons. So let's go back to 13. Um so 
 this is saying when I play this uh song 
 part I'm going to play the 
 chord progression number 13. So how do I 
 edit this one? press the 13 over here. 
 And now I'm in the chord settings um 
 menu. So here I have just a chord 
 progression with one chord. So I can 
 change the root note. I can change the 
 the quality of the of the the chord. Uh 
 and I can change the length of the 
 chord. Um actually let's put 
 some chords. That's going to be better 
 than just the just the bass. 
 Okay. 
 [Music] 
 So go back to song mode 13. 
 See, I can change the quality of the 
 chord. I can change the root note. 
 If I want to add another chord to the 
 progression, I go right. Okay. Until I'm 
 the last setting, go right again. And 
 then I can press A to add a new chord. 
 And now there are two chords in the 
 progression. So I can put whatever chord 
 I want. 
 [Music] 
 And maybe I want this one to last a 
 little bit longer. So, I'm going to go 
 uh 
 [Music] 
 like this. 
 All right. And so then you can just add 
 another chord and again or you can 
 remove. So you go to this page and you 
 press B to remove a chord from the 
 progression. Uh, and the last page is 
 actually to generate random chord 
 progressions. Uh, so you just press A 
 and it's going to randomly create a 
 chord progression. 
 You can press A again to try something 
 something else. 
 With the up and down button, you have 
 the option to select different scale. So 
 we have major, minor, and model. Uh, so 
 again, play a bit with this. See see 
 what you like. 
 [Music] 
 Okay, let's start with that. And so now, 
 how do we know which which note from the 
 chord is going to be played? So, uh this 
 is this is in the step mode. So, if I 
 select um the chords engine, this one is 
 going to play a chord by default always. 
 And that's because when we go to a step, 
 if we go to the uh note uh setting over 
 here, it's it's written it says chord. 
 If I press A, I can change I can just 
 play one note in the chord. Uh I can 
 play the arpeggiator or just a fixed 
 note that I said that has nothing to do 
 with the chord progression. But for the 
 chord track, we want to play a chord. Um 
 this is the only um polyonic track 
 inside the device. But if you control an 
 external um MIDI instrument, you can 
 also send chords through uh MIDI. Now if 
 I go to the lead uh by default it's 
 going to play. So you can see over here 
 it's going to play the arpeggiator. 
 But I can change I can mix. Uh for 
 instance I can have here I just I always 
 want to play the root note. So I'm going 
 to press A till I reach the uh note in 
 chord. And here you see number one plus 
 zero octave. So it's going to play the 
 first note of the chord uh at the same 
 octave as the chord. But I can So now 
 it's going to be always the same. I can 
 also play the second note of the chord, 
 the third, fourth, or I can play the the 
 root note at one octave above. I can go 
 down to play one octave below, etc. So I 
 can mix that. Uh for instance, I can say 
 the first step is always going to play 
 the root notes, but then I can go to the 
 arpeggiator for the 
 uh the three next notes and then the 
 fifth note 
 is going to play 
 uh the third note of the of the chord uh 
 etc etc. So let's let's put things like 
 this. 
 Okay, let's play 
 um let's play the root note one octave 
 above. Why not? Let's play the 
 the third or the fourth. And so 
 here we can mix um different things. And 
 for instance, this is interesting. And 
 if we go to the track mode, we go right 
 to select the uh arpeggiator mode. Um 
 and we can put random. 
 So uh yeah, here random. So now 
 the arpeggiator will play random notes 
 from the chord except for these steps 
 which we know will always land on the 
 note that we selected. 
 So, it's an interesting mix because uh 
 you can decide on on given steps, you 
 always want to play a precise note, but 
 for the others, you can just have random 
 notes. And of course, if you go to part 
 two, you can select another C 
 progression. 
 So, let's let's play the 14th. Let's 
 generate something else. And so now if I 
 play part one, it's going to be this 
 chord progression. 
 If I switch to the part two, 
 it's another chord progression. 
 So that's one way to have uh you know a 
 very interesting track. uh you can say 
 the first progression can be just 
 staying fixed on one single chord and 
 then as you move along the the track you 
 can bring in more chords uh have a 
 progression and then change again. Uh 
 that's that's pretty uh pretty powerful. 
 Okay, so last but not least um we're 
 going to finish with some of the new uh 
 synth engine available in the in the 
 PGB1. So I'm just using a little pattern 
 on the bass track here. So the first one 
 is the PDR square full sign. Um this is 
 a bit cryptic. PDR stands for a phase 
 distortion 
 uh resonance. Um and uh square full sign 
 means there is half of the waveform 
 which is a square wave and the other 
 half is a full sine wave. Um so we're 
 going to play this 
 We can increase the 
 shape distortion, the phase distortion. 
 And this is sound, this sounds like um 
 that hence the name uh phase distortion 
 resonance. It sounds like a um 
 um resonant filter um which is pretty 
 nice. 
 You can change the distortion 
 and the second parameter is uh distort 
 release. So you can make it short. 
 Okay. Uh let's switch to next one. 
 Triangle phaser. So this is um sorry 
 this is a bit like the phaser that we 
 had uh I think the chip phaser in the in 
 the first uh firmware. 
 Basically we have two triangle 
 waveforms. Uh we can change the shape of 
 the triangle and we can change offset 
 the phase. So here they are 
 synchronized. 
 We can increase the phase a little bit. 
 pretty good bass sound. Of course, we 
 have 
 the LFO here which we can use 
 to change automatically some parameters. 
 All right, the next one is pretty 
 similar. It's the sign phaser. So, the 
 same the same idea. It's just sine wave 
 instead of a triangle. So, we have a 
 shape. 
 Let's turn off the LFO. 
 We have a shape. We have 
 an offset between the two. 
 [Music] 
 Okay. 
 Next one. Sine plug. So, this is kind of 
 a plug sound um with a sine wave. Um 
 what's happening here is that we have a 
 filter that's going to close 
 um um 
 depending on the on the on the release 
 parameter. So 
 the shorter the release, the faster it's 
 going to close. 
 So it's kind of a pluck sound. We can 
 change the shape 
 of the waveform and we can change the 
 cutff frequency of the filter. 
 We also have the resonance of the 
 filter. 
 All right. And the next one is the same 
 with the triangle. 
 [Music] 
 Okay, 
 next one. Chip pluck. Same idea with a 
 square wave. 
 [Music] 
 Okay. 
 And uh that's it for the new uh synth 
 engine in the uh release 1.1.0 
 of the PGB1. All right, that wraps up 
 our uh overview of the new uh features 
 and improvements in the PGB1 uh 
 firmware, the new 1.1.0 firmware. Uh if 
 you have any questions, ID suggestion, 
 uh please join the Discord server and uh 
 um have a chat with us. We'd be happy to 
 hear uh your ideas. And uh in the 
 meantime, have fun and uh see you next 
 time. Thank you for watching. Bye.

Convert audio files to PGB-1 samples

Hi everyone. Quick video to show you how 
 to convert your um audio files on your 
 computer into samples for the PGB1. 
 And to do that right now, we have a 
 small uh widget on the website um and I 
 will show you how to use it. So we go 
 over to the computer 
 and uh we go to the weismakers.com PGB1 
 page. There will be a link in the 
 description. You go to the very bottom 
 of page here. You have this little 
 widget. Uh you have instructions on how 
 to use it, but I will show you. So, it's 
 very simple. You click on choose file, 
 which is going to open a file browser on 
 your computer. You select just random 
 sample. 
 You're going to see the waveform on your 
 screen. You can press play. 
 You just preview the sound. 
 You have here a field to change the name 
 of the sample. 
 I'm just going to use this. And here you 
 have to select which sample slot you 
 want to use between one and uh 64. And 
 this is going to erase the sample uh 
 once you transfer to the PGB1. It's 
 going to erase the sample that's uh in 
 this uh in this sl. So I'm just going to 
 use sample one. I'm going to click 
 export and it's going to download the 
 file that I can uh drag and drop to the 
 PGB1 when it's in uh firmware update 
 mode. So, just like when you update uh 
 your firmware, use a good quality USB 
 cable, plug the PGB1 to your computer, 
 press menu, go to update mode, confirm, 
 and now um PGB1 will show up as a um USB 
 drive on your computer uh with the name 
 RPI-P2. 
 Uh and so I'm going to click export. 
 It's just going to save the file. 
 Now I can just uh drag and drop the PGB1 
 sample UF2 file. It's going to reboot 
 the PGB1. And now if I go to sample, 
 I have this new sample on slot number 
 one. 
 All right, that's it.

PGB-1 firmware update version 1.2.0

Hi everyone. Uh welcome to this quick 
 presentation of the new uh PGB1 firmware 
 version 1.2.0. 
 Uh we have a few quality of life 
 improvements in this uh in this new 
 version including uh new icons for the 
 main menu. 
 Uh we also have now a um small number 
 showing the selected synth engine so you 
 know how many engines are available and 
 and when you are where you are in the 
 list. 
 Um also a pretty nice addition that was 
 uh requested a lot is this uh chromatic 
 keyboard that you can enable by holding 
 the edit button. So if I press and hold 
 the edit button, I can play 
 and select the bass, 
 I can play the selected track. [music] 
 If I press one, I can go down an octave. 
 If I press eight, I can go up. 
 And if I press four, I go back to 
 the center of the keyboard. 
 Now to use this keyboard to uh enter 
 notes on your pattern, you have to 
 enable edit mode by pressing short press 
 on the edit button and the keyboard will 
 change the note of the selected step. So 
 if I press and enable step one, I can 
 enter a note. 
 can press enable five, enter another 
 note, 
 etc. 
 um let's put 
 just whatever. [music] 
 That's pretty useful. And uh you can use 
 this keyboard to play any of the tracks 
 including the sampler. 
 Another big feature in this release is 
 the um ability to draw custom uh single 
 cycle waveform. So if you press menu, 
 you go right, you have this new custom 
 waveform uh entry. You press A to enter. 
 You can either uh draw your waveform uh 
 by yourself or you can load from uh a 
 set of u built-in waveforms as you can 
 see here. Uh you just select your 
 waveform, press A and it's going to be 
 loaded in the custom waveform 
 uh memory. If I go back, I can edit 
 myself. in which [snorts] case I have 
 this little cursor here that can move 
 with the up, down, left, right arrows 
 of the PGB1 and I can draw the waveform 
 like this. 
 Okay, another interesting option is to 
 use the touch uh slide to control the 
 value of the waveform. And I can press 
 and hold left to uh draw my waveform 
 like so. Okay. So now this waveform is 
 available in the project. It's saved as 
 part of the project. So you can have a 
 different uh custom waveform for each uh 
 of your uh PGB1 project. And uh you can 
 use this waveform in various different 
 uh sound engines. Uh we'll see the list 
 later, but I'm going to just pick one 
 for the bass here because we have a 
 baseline. 
 So for instance, 
 custom waveform pluck. 
 >> [music] 
 >> So this engine is now using the waveform 
 that we've just um drawn on the on the 
 screen 
 and I can edit this waveform live. 
 [music] So for instance I can load this 
 one and you can see the sound is 
 changing right away. 
 I can also draw live. I can use the 
 cursor to just [music] draw something 
 else 
 and it's 
 instantly having an effect on the sound. 
 [music] 
 [music] 
 So now in terms of new sound engines in 
 this uh 1.2.0 zero version. Uh we have a 
 few new kick 
 engines. 
 First one is sign click kick uh which is 
 the same as the sign kick with an 
 additional um noise transient 
 which we call the click here. Oh my bad. 
 Okay, 
 same as the other engines, you can uh 
 change the punch punch decay. 
 We also have a custom waveform kick. So, 
 this one is like uh like the other kick 
 in the in the previous versions, but 
 using the custom waveform that we've 
 just uh drawn. 
 And the last one is the same with the 
 additional uh kick transient. 
 All right. For the snare channel, 
 we have a new clap. So the the previous 
 clap is renamed uh clap bond pass and 
 the new one is high pass. So it's really 
 just what it is. It's a it's a it's a 
 new version of the clap using a highp 
 pass filter instead of a band pass 
 filter. 
 So the clap is just a short burst of uh 
 noise 
 and uh you can change the sync is going 
 to be the amount of time between each 
 trigger of the noise. 
 So the higher the value, the longer the 
 time between the the the short bursts. 
 So here you can you can hear them. 
 If I lower the value, it's going to get 
 faster. 
 Okay. Now I can bring back some noise 
 decay. 
 Here we have uh 
 filter cutff control 
 and some overdrive. 
 All right. Next up for the base and 
 [music] the lead uh which use the same 
 engines, we have many different um new 
 engines that are based on the custom 
 waveform. So we have um a glide, 
 phaser, 
 pluck, 
 echo, 
 and the phase distortion or resonance 
 uh version for the the custom waveform. 
 And last but not least, we have new 
 engines for the chord uh track. 
 So the first one called mixed waveforms. 
 Uh it's like the it's like the the 
 original except [music] that each 
 oscillator, we have four oscillators in 
 this uh in this track. Each oscillator 
 will use a different um wave four 
 and so the sound is is much more [music] 
 interesting than uh than the previous 
 one. 
 And the last one is custom waveform 
 which is um the same for voice polyonic 
 engine that we know just using the 
 custom uh waveform that we've just uh 
 drawn. uh just before. 
 So let's make a a quick example. 
 Generate 
 C progression. 
 I'm going to mute the bass. 
 And again, if [music] I want to edit, 
 you know, the waveform 
 live, I can [music] do it. 
 All right, that's it for this update. 
 Um, you can go to the PGB1 web page uh 
 to download and install this new update. 
 Uh, let us know in the comment what you 
 think about these new features. Uh and 
 also please join the discord server to 
 uh have a chat with us and and share 
 your experience with uh other PGB1 
 users. All right, thank you for watching 
 and see you next time.

